hi I'm Jill Duffy for PC Mag comm and
this is get organized a series of weekly
articles and videos about organization
and technology this week we're going to
be looking at digitizing a recipe
collection over the years I've tried a
number of different ways for organizing
and maintaining a digital recipe
collection and the solution I've come
across that works the best is Evernote
I'll explain some of the pros and cons
of using Evernote and also kind of show
you how it works on my screen now is the
Evernote Mac app but there's apps for
pretty much any platform that you have
now you can see that it's very
customizable I just changed the view and
this is one of the pros of the program
is that you can really shape it the way
that you want I'm going to flip through
a couple of these recipes just so you
can see that they're not at all uniform
and they really don't have to be in
Evernote this one I clipped from the web
here's one that I copied from a blog and
here's one that I just shot with my
iPhone camera now let's just switch back
to the web app version just so it's a
uniform look for anybody else who's not
on a Mac so here I've got a handwritten
recipe for brownies I've just shot this
using my iPhone and uploaded it to
Evernote and by default it goes into an
inbox folder that's where all my new
notes go until I can deal with them so
now I'm going to categorize it into the
folder I actually want which is called
recipes colon sweets and baking and I'm
going to give it a title brownies that
make sense next I'm going to add some
tags tags are exactly what they sound
like they help you find groups of
recipes that have something similar so
when it's all said and done it looks
something like this now let's look at
the Evernote Web Clipper this is just a
free plugin and when you install it it
shows up as a little icon in the upper
right corner of your browser and all it
does is save the content from a web page
into a new Evernote note this is
probably the fastest way to centralize
all those recipes that you have saved as
bookmarks and make them searchable you
just go to the page that you want hit
the web clipper icon and you can select
either the entirety of the
age or just the URL or just a certain
amount of text that you want to save
into Evernote sometimes you don't
necessarily want to clip an entire page
so here's an example of a video I want a
reference all I really need is the link
to it and maybe a few notes or tags
about what it is so the Web Clipper
actually has options for that and that's
what I'm gonna do here while that's
working let me just point out one of the
cons of using Evernote for recipes and
that's that you can't export a recipe to
a shopping list that's something you
will find though in typical recipe
saving apps one feature Evernote does
have though is the ability to share
recipes really easily you can share them
with specific people or just make a
public link the article that comes with
this video has a lot more tips on how to
set this up and it also has some
alternatives if you decide you don't
want to use Evernote for your recipe
collection for PC Mag com I'm Jill Duffy
helping you stay organized you can email
me anytime at Jill underscore Duffy at
PC Mag comm